[New Term] Kotlin Arrays: `.get()` (#1517)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/hashmap/terms/get.md

---
Title: '.get()'
Description: 'The get function is used to retrieve the value associated with a particular key in a HashMap.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'HashMap'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Collections'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn-java'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-kotlin'
```

  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

In Kotlin, the `get()` function is a method of the Map interface that is used to retrieve the value associated with a particular key.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> fun <K, V> Map<K, V>.get(key: K): V?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
myHashMap.get(key: K): V?
```

Not sure why the previous syntax was there; this `.get()` should speak more directly to HashMaps.

```

> Where,`Map<K, V>` is the interface and the `get()` function is the method of this interface.`K` is the type of the key of the map. `V` is the type of the value associated with the key.`key` is the key for which the associated value should be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `key` parameter is of [data type](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/kotlin/data-types) `K`. If the `key` exists in `myHashMap`, the associated value, of type `V`, is returned. Otherwise, `null` is returned.
```

## Example

> To access the elements of a `HashMap`, you can use the `get()` function to retrieve the value for a given key. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how the `.get()` function is used to retrieve a value:
```

```kotlin

> val map = HashMap<String, Int>().apply {
>     put("apple", 1)
>     put("banana", 2)
>     put("cherry", 3)
> }
> 
> val value = map.get("apple")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fun main() {
  val hashMap = HashMap<String, Int>().apply {
      put("apple", 1)
      put("banana", 2)
      put("cherry", 3)
  }

  val value = hashMap.get("apple")
  System.out.println(value)
}
```

```

> The output for the above code will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will print the following output:
```
